to news now about the war between Israel
and Hamas International mediators are
calling on both Israel and Hamas to
agree to a ceasefire proposal put
forward by US President Joe Biden
Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin
Netanyahu is under intense domestic
pressure some want him to reach a truce
and secure the immediate release of
hostages taken by Hamas during their
October 7th attack but netanyahu's
far-right allies are threatening to
bring down the government if he does so
since the beginning of the war Netanyahu
has insisted on the total Destruction of
Hamas he has carefully avoided defining
any clear timeline for ending the
conflict or any discussion of the day
after in
Gaza but now his hand may have been
forced by a truce proposal forwarded by
US President Joe
Biden the deal would bring a permanent
ceasefire in Gaza in exchange for the
remaining hostages held by
Hamas crucially the US stresses the plan
is not theirs this was an Israeli
proposal we have every expectations that
that if Hamas agrees to the proposal as
was transmitted to them an Israeli
proposal that Israel would say yes while
Hamas says it views The Proposal
positively netanyahu's far-right allies
are
Furious it is a reckless deal there is
no total Victory except a total defeat
de feat for Hamas I say that if prime
minister Netanyahu continues to lead
this deal we will dismantle the
government the ultimatum has left the
Prime Minister facing a stark choice and
the clock is
ticking last month one of the members of
Israel's three-man war cabinet Benny
gance delivered an ultimatum of his own
gance gave the government until June 8th
to come up with a plan for the future in
Gaza or he withdraw from the
government the pressure is mounting on
Netanyahu and it's coming from all
sides DW correspondent Rebecca rits
joins me now from Jerusalem good morning
Rebecca is prime minister Netanyahu
willing to accept the
deal that's a really really difficult
question to answer bees as you heard
there the pressure is really mounting on
Benjamin Netanyahu especially from the
United States who say that the prime
minister's office tacitly agreed to this
deal they are framing it as a deal that
has come from Israel one that they had
previously agreed to but on the weekend
we heard from prime minister Benjamin
Netanyahu who again reiterated that he
would not accept any deal that led to a
permanent ceasefire before Hamas are
completely uh you know obliterated and
completely taken out of the Gaza Strip
so that is something that he's promised
to his far-right members of his coal
Coalition who on the weekend also
threatened to break up that Coalition
should prime minister Benjamin Netanyahu
agree to such a deal uh we heard this
morning that he is due prime minister
Benjamin Netanyahu that is is due to
meet with one of those far-right
ministers so there are clearly talks
ongoing but as he keeps reiterating he
wouldn't agree to a deal that leads to
this permanent ceasefire that has been
the sticking point on the other hand you
have Hamas who won't agree to a deal
that doesn't lead to a permanent
ceasefire so that's where the kind of
the Gap really lies and has lied for
months now so you know the sticking
point of that is is that particular deal
the US are putting immense pressure on
Benjamin Netanyahu and and saying as you
heard there from John Kirby saying that
if Hamas do agree to this and it's
certainly looking like they may do they
have responded positively so far we're
still waiting for a final response but
if they do that that the US expects
Israel to agree to Israel's defense
minister yav Galant has said Israel is
looking into an alternative local
governing body to take over from Hamas
are they talking about the Palestinian
Authority well he didn't specify what he
meant by this governing alternative uh
the Palestinian Authority is certainly
one serious option that is being touted
by the United States for one certainly
that's what they're saying they'd like
to see in a post-war Gaza that a
revitalized Palestinian Authority as
they say uh could then govern both the
West Bank and uh the Gaza Strip
currently obviously as we know they
don't govern uh in Gaza but they do
govern in the West Bank though there are
issues they largely seen as corrupt uh
they don't have a huge support base they
haven't held elections for many years
and you know they don't have a lot of
authority with Palestinians in general
so that's why the US are calling for
them to be revitalized but you know the
Benjamin Netanyahu has said he does not
see that as the option you have Galant
has criticized Benjamin Netanyahu for
not coming out with a post
post Gaza War plan he says that you know
that that it's irresponsible that they
need to be making a plan um he's
certainly against establishing uh
Israeli civilian control in Gaza that's
something that Galant has said he does
not want to see and he is all for
Palestinian entities governing in areas
along with International bodies but
we'll just have to see what happens he
hasn't specified whether he means those
governing entities to be the Palestinian
Authority but that is a very unpopular
uh option for the Israeli government
we'll leave it there for the moment DW's
Rebecca RS in Jerusalem thanks very
much let's get some more context from
Professor Yosi melbeck from the middle
Easter and North Africa program of the
think T Think Tank chattam house Yosi
prime minister n finds himself in a sort
of a clinch between his own government
the US and the will of many of his own
people who demand he bring the hostages
home is that a circle he just can't
Square
it's a difficult Circle to square but
it's all of his own
making he is the one that form a
government with the far right that has
no strategic Outlook whatsoever they
don't understand how Wars are
conducted they have they have a
Messianic view of the world and they
will continue the war forever H the
pressure from the United States actually
helping is a right now to end this this
war because Israel set from from from
the outside and un unattainable aim of
destroying of destroying Kamas and we
see eight months later it's still deep
into into Gaza and and bring soldiers
and and troops back to areas that it it
already was supposed to clean from from
from Hamas militant so it's it's a time
to end this war to bring the hostages
back to look into the future of the
Reconstruction of of Gaza and also to
look at the bigger picture of the
Israeli Palestinian
conflict now this is not the first time
that the US especially is putting
pressure on Netanyahu if he says no
again what effect will that likely have
on us Israeli relations will Joe Biden
lose
patience as as as we just saw this is an
Israeli pop proposal so one assumes that
it was discussed with with with netan
negotiated with him so if he goes back
on his world this creates further
tension with with with Washington we
know it's it's an election year in the
in the United States but patience is
running out and I think it ran out a
while ago there is a difference between
a gap right now between the lack of
patience with the netan government at
the same time how the United States
react you know netan has an option here
because he has the support even from the
opposition those who didn't join the
government and the Coalition after
October 7 said a deal with they we
support you from the outside the the the
parties the party that was in opposition
before October 7 says exactly the same
this is part of the
ultimatum of reaching a deal along these
lines and supporting netan but the end
of the day it it it his decision what he
puts first the country or his vested
interest but there is also another
complication that has to do with with
the case of the the Supreme
Court actually deliberating about the
issue of drafting Ultra Orthodox into
the army and this might complicate this
further which might end actually in in
in election quite soon How likely do you
think it is that this this government
netanyahu's government um breaks
down it's it's a real
possibility the most important thing
it's not whether it's has the we know in
democracy it has the support of a
majority in Parliament in the KET but if
you look at every public opinion P this
government there's no mandate from the
public because what happened since the
last election until now was a SE change
in Israel this is not what Iran ran for
this is a government that failed its
people on October 7 and fails the
country ever since so the the the public
is is desperate for election and said
time and again that it was netan out and
and a new government that will deal the
pressing pressing issues with that comes
again the complication of of drafting
Ultra Orthodox the right is actually
threatening to leave government if there
is a deal or they even put pressure
to accelerate and escalate the war
withal in the North because this is the
only mod op the know never ending War
thank you very much Yosi melack from the
think tank chattam house in London thank
you